Next, let's take a look
at conditional types.
You can think of conditional types
as kind of a ternary operator,
but for type information and just so
everybody understands what I
mean by the ternary operator.
It's this where we could say shorthand for
if then else.
If x is greater than 0,
then the expression should evaluate to no.
Otherwise, it should evaluate to yes.
So I imagine a lot of you have seen this.
This is part of modern JavaScript
has been around for a while.
So let's look at the type
equivalent to a ternary operator.
We've got two cooking appliances,
a grill and an oven.
And I can define a type cooking device
that's generic over T, a type param.
And if T extends the string literal
type grill, evaluate to a grill.
Otherwise, evaluate to an oven and
look at what we get.
Device1, grill.
Device2, oven.
It's a little bit of
if--then-else happening here.
And remember my argument for
extends being like, is subtype of?
You can think of it as in
terms of this condition,
you're evaluating whether
T is a subtype of grill.
In this case, it's a unit type.
It can really only be grill and you might
witness that even if we screw this up,
we're gonna end up with oven
because anything that doesn't
match grill is regarded as an oven.
That's just how these work same as
if I were to screw this up sort of
like if the conditions not met, absolutely
everything else flows through and
you get the if condition not met
expression as what you evaluate out to.
These are some interesting examples.
So we've got some values 1, 2 and
10 because these are const declarations.
And because the value we assign to these
variables, they're immutable values.
Numbers cannot be altered once.
Once declared,
these end up being literal types.
It comes ten is of type ten,
there's only one thing this could be.
So we could create some
interesting types here.
So this one is like is low number and
we're saying, okay,
if T extends one or two, then is
low number should evaluate to true.
Otherwise, it should be false.
And if we look, TestOne is true.
TestTwo is true.
TestThree with TestTen is false and
look at this, TestTen with two.
We're passing a union type
through this type param.
That's interesting,
we're getting Boolean out.
We don't have Boolean anywhere
in our conditional type.
I mean, we have true and
false, but that's interesting.
There's a question that I see,
does grill and
oven being lowercase when passing
in the type parameter matter?
Is there is there case sensitivity.
So there is case sensitivity and
the only thing that you have
to do is make sure you match.
So if we did capital G for grill,
this is gonna turn into oven.
Just think about it like
a string comparison check,
you can fix that by doing this and
you'd be okay.
In either case, they are different strings
held in different places in memory,
but those strings are not equal to each
other, unless they're case-sensitive.
Yeah, the strings don't have to be
class names here, we'll do that.
Really, it's just comparing this cuz
this is the T, right, cooking device.
If I hover over this,
see how it's like T extends G.
So it's just G coming through here.
It It is not really connected
with the class name at all.
Okay, let's go back to
this puzzling thing here.
Does anyone have a theory as
to why we're seeing this?
>> It knows its load number
just resolves to Boolean.
>> IsLowNumber does resolve to a Boolean,
why?
>> So it's the only options
coming out of the ternary.
It could be either or, or false.
>> Could be either or,
one of those evaluates to true.
The other one evaluates to false and
you put those together and
you get Boolean.
What we're seeing here is evidence
that when we project a union
type through a type parameter, you really
wanna think of that as if we did this.
It's the same thing.
When you project a union type
through a type parameter, you wanna
imagine as if every element of that
union type is individually evaluated and
then we take all of those results and
we union them all together.
That's why we're getting true, it's both.
Jay asks, is T always the top level type?
This is just cargo culting.
If you wanna look up that term,
it's a convention that doesn't have
any particular importance or value.
But in C++, the equivalent concept
to this was called template
classes where you could take in
a type param just we're doing here or
capital T for template and it has stuck.
You'll see that in Java and
C Sharp anywhere they're type
params people use capital letters.
You can do whatever you want.
As long as you match the number off these,
you're fine.
These you can name however you want.
There is a convention around using
at least capitalized things, but
I would just say that is as important
as beginning variable names
with lowercase and beginning
class names with capital letters.
The value is in us being able
to look at something and
to sort of understand what it could be and
what it couldn't be.
But beyond that, there's nothing
that would stop me from doing this.
It can be whatever you want.